There is a
sacred place in the deep swamp...
where the mangrove trees
grow close together...
and the rays of the sun
are never seen.
My people call this place
the "Dark Water."
It is here that the spirit
of the swamp lives.
This place was always filled
with life and beauty.
But evil men
have changed that...
with their drills, their pipes,
greed and murder.
Now the swamp
cries out a warning:
A time of retribution is here.
- Wait!
- Hey!
Whoa!
Mmm!
Not here, Billy.
Wait!
Sarah! Stop!
I mean it, Sarah!
Stop!
Come on, Billy!
I don't want to!
Come on back to the fire.
This swamp's dangerous.
You're out of your goddamn mind!
Have you
heard the stories about this place?
Hey.
People disappear down here
all the time, girl.
Why you being so crazy, huh?
You're not afraid of the dark,
are you, Billy boy?
Oh, hell no. That ain't it.
This place has got bad mojo.
- 'Fraidy cat.
- Oh, shit!
- You still afraid, Billy boy?
- We shouldn't be doin' this out here.
Holy shit!
You seem like a virgin, Billy.
I ain't no fuckin' virgin.
Oh, yeah!
Oh!
- Oh, my God!
- You liked that, huh, baby?
That was good, huh?
Oh, my God!
So, you're taking
me the scenic route, huh?
What the hell are you
doin' down here anyway, boy?
Start a new life, maybe.
Lookin' for some peace and quiet.
You know.
You city boys sure are funny.
Why do they call it "Bywater"?
Because it's by the water.
No. No, ma'am.
No, I can't.
I'm sorry, but I have to stay put.
Ma'am, I don't know
where your son is.
- I gotta get out of this town.
- So why would you wanna leave paradise?
- Man, you scared the shit out of me.
- Sorry about that.
I'm Kyle Williams,
the new sheriff.
You must be Eric Fraser, yeah?
Yeah, yeah.
Fraser'll do.
- What?
- No offense, but...
Well, I just expected
someone more...
more experienced,
I mean, considerin'...
Considering what?
See, Sheriff Corely, he, uh...
Well, he kind of went insane
before he disappeared.
That's a lot of missing
persons for a small town.
I guess they didn't
fill you in all the way.
It started with this Indian
medicine man... Ted Sallis.
He was the first one
to disappear.
Corely thought Sallis
put a curse on Bywater.
- Hey, I can take all this down.
- No.
Leave it.
- So what do you think, Fraser?
- I don't know.
Gator attacks.
Murder, possibly.
Possibly.
Another one disappeared
last night.
Local boy.
Billy James.
- Jesus.
- Yeah.
Who's Rene Laroque?
He's a local troublemaker.
Corely thought he and Sallis
were in this together.
Called him
a "shape-shifter."
But we could never catch him.
Why can't you catch him?
Why can't we catch him?
Hell, you ain't never been in that
swamp before, have you?
Well--
Deputy Fraser.
Oh, hey, Val.
It's the coroner.
Whoa, whoa. What?
Oh, my God.
Is that Billy?
Yeah.
That's Billy.
Fraser, you go wait outside.
Yeah. Yeah, okay.
Cause of death?
Only thing around here large
enough to do this, Sheriff, is a gator.
You know, there's a...
there's a girl that was with him.
She might've seen what happened.
She's down at the hospital here.
Is this normal?
This green stuff?
Sheriff, this body has been in
the swamp. You understand?
Yeah, for one night.
Mr. Schist just called. There's
a disturbance at the oil site.
Can you go? I'd like to
stick with this right now.
Mr. Schist asked if
you could handle it personally.
Said he wants the new sheriff
to see what he's been up against.
Okay.
- I want a full autopsy.
- You got it.
I appreciate your rights to free assembly,
but this here's
private property.
Now, we can cut you out
one by one,
or one of you can tell me
where the key is to that chain.
This is not a goddamn park.
This is a work site!
Surely you got a home to go to, girlie.
Now, I've been real patient
with you folk.
- But you all are trespassin'.
- You just listen to the man!
I'm givin' you
one last chance to disperse!
Or else, I'm gonna drag you
out by that chain...
Fraser,
I'm real glad you're here.
I want all these folk arrested.
Now, now, Jake.
This is Kyle Williams,
our new sheriff.
- Sheriff, this is Jake Schist.
- Mornin'.
He's a foreman here for his dad,
headin' up the new drillin' operations.
Good. You can arrest 'em.
Arresting all of them
might be a little difficult.
Let me see what I can do.
All right, everyone!
I appreciate
your right to free assembly,
but this is
a privately-owned work site.
Your actions here are illegal.
You gotta get your asses up
out of the mud and go home.
Who the hell are you?
- I'm the new sheriff, ma'am.
- Well, have a taste of country hospitality, Sheriff.
Our asses aren't goin' anywhere.
Why don't y'all go fuck a tree,
ya hippie bitch?
Here.
- Fraser.
- Oh. Got it, chief.
Ma'am,
right or wrong,
this is my job.
Yeah, well, this is about a
different kind of law, Sheriff.
Schist has been committing a crime against
these people on this land for long enough.
You got handcuffs.
Put 'em on Schist.
Bolt cutters.
Hey, hey, hey!
What are you doin'?
Sheriff, I-I'm sorry.
Are you all right?
- Walk or ride?
- What did you say?
Put me down!
What do you think you're doin'?
This is a violation of my
civil rights! Put me down now!
You have the right to remain silent. Anything
you say can and will be used against you...
- in a court of law.
- Who do you think you are?
- Fraser, cut everyone loose.
- I want to speak to my attorney!
- You have the right to an attorney.
- I want a lawyer! Put me down!
If you can't afford an attorney, one will
be appointed to you.
Get in the car.
You had better be arresting me,
'cause I'm gonna kick
your city-boy ass...
Got in straight to work,
Sheriff.
I like that.
Howdy, Sheriff.
- Frederic Schist.
- Kyle Williams.
Hell of a way to spend your first day
on the job, Kyle. I hate this. I really do.
These are good folk.
I sympathize.
Can't let the goddamn flies
spoil the picnic, Sheriff.
You're gonna hear a lot
about me around here.
I'm the, uh, big fish
in the small pond.
Bottom line is,
I'm not breakin' any laws.
Not any American laws, anyways.
And I paid a bundle for this land.
What do you mean,
"American laws"?
Well, you're gonna hear
that honey that you arrested...
sing about tribal laws.
Horseshit excuses...
for terrorists to put sand
in my gears.
But is there something you
wanna tell me?
Something specific?
You're a straight shooter,
ain't you? I like that.
Well, there is, uh,
someone specific.
Rene Laroque.
He's part Indian.
Hell, he could be out there
in the swamp killin' people.
Lives out there like an animal.
Sir, before I, um,
arrest anybody,
- I need to conduct my own proper investigation.
- Of course you do.
What I'm sayin' is, it needs
to be sooner rather than later.
Let me tell you.
When the dust has settled,
you'll find this
a nice place to live.
- Isn't that right, Jake?
- Yes, sir.
Real nice place to live.
I'll make sure of it.
Thank you, Mr. Schist.
Jake.
Get that dozer movin'!
Pa.
He's kind of young
to be a sheriff, ain't he?
Yes, he is.
That's the idea.
- Name?
- Teri Elizabeth Richards.
Occupation?
I teach third grade.
You think getting arrested's setting
a good example for your students?
Well, I think standin' up for your
principles sets a good example.
So, yes, I do.
So, you've been
arrested five times.
One more and you
get the decoder ring.
Sheriff, that swamp has been
my backyard since I was born.
It's part of me,
and I happen to love it.
That's not Schist's land.
It's ancestral land,
and it's sacred to the tribe.
Besides, the tribe didn't see
a cent of Schist's money.
Their leader, Ted Sallis,
took it and ran.
Okay.
Okay, I'm listening.
I mean, no one wants to see, because Schist
is so busy pumpin' money into the town.
But, Sheriff,
this swamp is dying.
People are dying.
Rene Laroque.
Do you know him?
Sheriff, this is a small town.
- Everybody knows everybody.
- Can you help me find him?
He's not that easy to find.
Okay.
You can go.
You're not chargin' me?
Like you said,
it's a small town.
So if I was to charge
a third grade schoolteacher...
whose worst crime
is caring for the environment...
on my first day...
That's not the way
I'd like to get started.
You can go.
Fine.
How you doin'?
I thought diners were
supposed to be friendly.
Well, for the new sheriff,
first coffee's free.
Thank you.
Second one is twice the price.
- There you go.
- Thanks.
- Mornin', Sheriff.
- How you doin'?
Uh, what brings
you here, warrant or pleasure?
- Got a sweet tooth.
- Uh-huh.
Well, Sheriff Williams,
meet another sugar addict.
This is Pete Horn.
Oh, Pete, this is the nice man
that arrested me yesterday.
Howdy.
Pleased to meet you, Sheriff.
- Pleasure, Pete.
- Do you mind?
Here.
- Breakfast, Sheriff?
- Eggs and grits, I guess.
- Can I help you?
- No, I don't think you can.
But I can help you.
Welcome to Dodge City, Sheriff.
This is the showdown, man.
All the legends around here
are true. It's incredible.
Yeah?
Come out to my place
in the swamp, man,
and I could show you some things
if you have the courage to believe.
Ploog! What the hell you
doin', you freaky piece of shit?
Heel, boys. Heel.
I told you not to
bring them dogs in here.
- Excuse me. I didn't realize you were the law around here.
- You're lucky I didn't eat 'em.
Good luck, Sheriff. You have a fine
time with the Bywater breakfast club.
I've seen this show before.
I gotta go.
Bye, Pete.
- Take care.
- Got a kiss for me?
- Yeah, right.
- Don't go fillin' the new sheriff's head...
with your bullshit, Ploog.
Hey. Don't pay him no never
mind, Sheriff. He coon crazy.
Crazy as a coon.
Hey! Ooh-wee!
That sure is...
- one shiny new badge, Sheriff.
- Hey, hey. Hey.
- Don't put your hands on me, mister.
- Thibodeaux.
- Wayne Thi-bo-deaux.
- Yeah.
Why don't you take your friend,
Mr...
Rodney Thibodeaux.
We're brothers.
Well, your mother must be proud.
So, please, sit down, gentlemen.
Let a man have his coffee.
Hey!
I was just foolin'.
Just jokin' with ya.
No man can stand
against it alone.
What?
Something is out there...
waiting.
- How long has she been like this?
- Since they brought her in.
It's like we're not even here.
Tell me if anything changes--
Sheriff, it's Fraser. Schist
wants you back over at the work site.
Thanks for fittin' us into
your busy schedule, Sheriff.
Fraser could've
come out earlier.
I think you need
to see this for yourself.
You had some vandalism here
last night?
You could call it that.
Had to cancel
an entire day's work.
They hit every rig.
Slashed the belts, slashed the pipes.
Hell, this time,
they stole some dynamite.
I'm already months behind here.
You understand, Sheriff?
You gonna do a damn thing about
Rene Laroque, or just take pictures?
You think this was done
by Laroque?
Hell, yeah!
Red-skinned motherfucker.
And that old madman Pete
Horn, he's behind this too.
Yeah? Don't you think he's a
little old to be running a revolution?
It don't make no difference
how old they get.
You can't trust 'em...
Injuns and Coloreds both.
- Steve, I don't think the sheriff needs...
- They hate us!
I mean, the first chance
they get, they strike at you.
First thing, they're
snoopin' around stealin' things.
Next thing you know, they'll
burn this place to the ground.
You see if they don't.
You can't trust 'em. Shit.
There's all kinds of people you
can't trust in this world, mister.
- I put racist assholes at the top of that list.
- Hey, come on, brother.
They all think I ripped
'em off. Hell, Sheriff,
I was the one
that overpaid for swampland.
- It was that old crook Sallis who started this.
- Jake!
Well, it was! He skipped town with
the money. He's one of their own.
Someone breaks the law,
they have my full attention.
But as far as I'm concerned, this is
an open case until I get hard evidence.
Whatever your beliefs are,
Sheriff, you better take care.
There's more things in that
swamp than you'll ever understand.
This is a dark corner
of the world, boy.
You better keep your lights on.
- Fraser.
- Yeah, go ahead, Sheriff.
Fraser, I'm drivin' back from the work
site, checkin' the perimeter of the swamp.
I'm losing you, Sheriff. You
be careful out there, Sheriff.
Aah!
Huh?
Shit.
This is ridiculous.
Is that you, Laroque?
Jake! Jake!
Where are you goin'?
Did you get him?
Did you get a bead on him?
Goddamn it!
I ain't chasin'.
Ain't no Indian
gonna make me run!
No, sir.
Keep your hands
where I can see them!
Show me your hands!
Are you Rene Laroque?
Don't fucking move!
I'm Sheriff Kyle Williams.
I will put you down.
Go home...
or you will die.
Shit!
Jake!
Quit fuckin' around, man!
Get back up here
and finish your watch!
God!
What the...
Jake!
Come on, man!
I'm done with fuckin' around!
Oh, fuck!
New sheriff,
meet the old sheriff.
Jim Corely.
Poor guy.
There's hardly anything left of him.
He's been missin' for over a
month. How'd you end up findin' him?
Just lucky, I guess.
Right.
Notice somethin' here.
See this?
Right around here?
Classic bite pattern of
a large mississippiensis...
common southern alligator.
- There's no doubt about this one.
- This one?
Mind gettin' that?
Please?
County coroner's office.
Yeah.
Fraser, speak up.
Clean up.
I need you on a field trip.
Cool.
I'll get my kit, Sheriff.
Fraser.
You okay?
Now, you focus, Eric.
- You can be freaked out later, but not on the job.
- Yeah.
- What the hell could do that?
- I don't know.
Could this be some kind of, um,
ritualistic thing?
I have no idea, Sheriff.
No idea at all.
How could you shove a branch
down someone's throat like that?
Let me show you something.
See the teeth?
Position of the tongue?
Sheriff,
this branch
wasn't shoved in.
It's comin' from the inside out.
- See, the other bodies, they had...
- What other bodies?
I need a cigarette.
Do you have to smoke?
Definitely.
Sheriff, three of
our missin' persons,
they-they washed up
over the past several months.
Now, they all had...
Well, not like this, Sheriff,
but-but more like Billy, you know?
Swamp stuff growin'
inside of 'em...
comin' out from inside,
you understand?
Why wasn't this in the file?
Corely wouldn't even let me
do an autopsy on 'em, Sheriff.
I mean, he insisted
I file them as gator attacks.
What did you think they were?
- Hell, I-I figured, what the fuckin' else could they be?
- What the hell?
Goddamn it!
What man could do that?
Sheriff!
I just talked to Val.
You're going to get
Rene, aren't you?
Teri, please,
just let me do my job.
What, you're gonna hunt him down
like some kind of animal?
Look, if he's innocent,
then he'll walk.
But I can't just sit on my hands
and watch other people die.
- Rene would never do something like that.
- How do you know that?
I saw Rene less than two miles from
where Steve Gerber was murdered.
- Sheriff!
- You're not listening to me. I know Rene.
- Yeah, well, that's pretty obvious.
- Hey, Kyle!
What?
Jake Schist is hirin' the
Thibodeauxs to go after Rene.
Don't you see
what's goin' on here?
We'd better get
over there and talk to 'em.
- I'll lock up.
- Goddamn it!
- You smell that?
- That's bad.
Fraser.
What y'all doin'
out here, Fraser?
Shoppin' for somethin'
for your new girlfriend there?
Well, Rodney,
your mama called my mama,
and she told my mama that Jake
was out here gettin' you boys...
mixed up in our investigation.
Hey.
Well, well, well.
We in trouble?
- Hell, we ain't done nothin' yet.
- Shut up, Wayne.
So what brings you
to the shit shack, Jake?
Hey, you want a beer?
Oh, that's right. You on duty.
Old Jake here was just tellin' us
what happened to Steve Gerber.
- Nasty.
- Real bad.
Yeah. I'd appreciate you not
discussing the investigation--
Hey, get them heads
out of the formaldehyde!
Shit! I bet
you overcooked 'em.
When they get overcooked,
the skin bursts.
They dry all crackly-lookin'
and weird.
- Fucked up?
- Nope. We're good.
Well, lacquer 'em up quick.
You know how them dumb
Yankee tourists likes 'em shiny.
Just so there's no misunderstanding.
If I see any one of you in that
swamp lookin' for Rene Laroque,
I won't hesitate to
throw the book at you.
Get up!
Me and my brother here, we're just a couple
of good old boys tryin' to make a livin'.
Ain't no need
to get unfriendly-like.
Yeah, well, Mr. Thibodeaux,
that's about as friendly
as I'm gonna get.
Come on.
Get inside!
Stupid, Jake.
That about
does it for the main channels.
I wanna find Laroque
before anyone else does.
Gettin' dark, sir.
Just take me to
the deep swamp, Fraser.
Okay.
Shit!
Perfect timing.
I hate this swamp.
Sheriff, if I don't...
if I don't fix this engine,
the battery will die,
and we'll lose the lights.
Well, I hope
you can fix it, Fraser.
Why don't they write
a manual for these things?
There's
too many things alive out here.
Yeah, I'd like to remain
one of 'em.
Hey, where you runnin'?
You always make the coffee too
strong, Wayne. My shit's boilin'.
Well, get downwind
and squeeze it off.
Don't wanna let Sheriff Cranky Pants
have a chance of pickin' up your stink.
Believe me, it'll be quick.
Ooh!
Fuckin' swamp.
Shit! Shit! Shit!
- Hey!
- Stinkin' mud!
You shat yourself.
- Your whole self.
- I fell in the mud, you scrotum.
Sure it
wasn't your own mud?
I'm gettin' pretty goddamn
sick of your shit, Wayne.
Oh, come on.
We're brothers, Rodney.
- That's my job.
- Well, let's get on with this job.
Let's go get us an Injun skull.
Mike Ploog.
Yeah, I met him.
- He's a weird guy.
- Yeah, that's Ploog, all right.
Moved here about six months ago.
Took a place right in
the middle of the swamp.
Told me he saw the Loch Ness
monster when he was a boy.
So, what's at Ploog's?
He's got a couple extra canoes
tied up to his porch.
We'll need 'em if
we wanna get home.
Or go deeper,
if that plan still stands.
What are you afraid of, Fraser?
The Dark Water.
Sacred land, man.
If I was Rene,
that's where I'd be.
And I can show you to the edge,
but badge or no badge,
that's as far as I'll go.
You really believe in all this?
I believe that when a man's
chest becomes an insect's palace,
when his eyes are gone and
his limbs ain't there no more,
and when I'm so scared I wanna handcuff myself
to my bed to keep from comin' to work...
Yeah, I believe it, man.
I believe
I don't wanna die, Sheriff.
Rodney!
Rodney?
I can't see ya!
Wait up!
Rodney!
Damn! Mud bank!
You'd best get your
sorry ass on back here!
What's that?
Rodney!
What the...
There it is.
That's Ploog's.
Hey, Ploog!
Mike!
Mike, you there?
It's Fraser.
It's locked.
Somethin's wrong.
Don't feel right.
Why don't you stay here?
You wait for Ploog.
- I'll go find Rene.
- Hey, what? Wait.
Fraser, I need you
to wait here...
in case I flush him out.
You're here to grab him.
If the Thibodeauxs come by,
well, you can handle 'em.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
Okay, chief.
Keep your eyes open, Fraser.
Yeah, it's all good, chief.
I'll be right here.
Okay.
Smart, Kyle.
Take the Bywater job.
Get a tan,
beer belly,
lots of sun.
Get fuckin' eaten alive.
Rene!
Wayne!
Goddamn it!
Make me turn my ass around and come
back all this way just to look for you.
Son of a bitch. Wayne!
Wayne, where you at?
Wayne? Is that you?
Oh, Jesus! Lord!
No, Wayne! No!
Oh, Wayne, what the hell
happened to you?
Hey, Mike!
Mike Ploog, is that you?
It's Deputy Fraser.
Now, no goddamn sneaking up,
ya hear?
Hey, Ploog!
Mike!
Wait up!
Rene!
It's Sheriff Williams.
I just wanna talk.
There's a couple of rednecks out
here who want to do a lot more than that.
Rene,
I wanna talk about
what happened to Ted Sallis.
Rene.
What are you doing?
Joining the hunt, Sheriff.
Mike?
Is somebody there? Hello?
Didn't I tell you to go home?
If you're not who they say
you are, just cut me down.
Who do they say I am?
They say you're the one
responsible for people disappearing.
- No.
- Then who is?
Only the swamp
knows the answer to that.
- Not everyone's against you, Rene.
- Oh, yeah?
There are some people
who believe you're innocent.
No one is innocent, Sheriff,
especially not me.
I convinced Schist to buy up all
the Indian land... the swampland.
So you sold out.
We had nothing.
I thought the money
would help the tribe.
What went wrong?
- Ted Sallis wouldn't sell.
- I thought he did sell.
That man
would never have sold his land,
and he would never have run.
Are you saying Ted Sallis
was murdered?
I'm saying right after
he disappeared,
Schist stuck a rig in the center of
our most sacred place, the Dark Water.
The guardian here won't stop
until the flow of oil has stopped.
- Pete Horn said something was out here.
- We never once saw eye to eye.
But Pete thinks his prayers can stop it.
I've got my own plans.
Run, or it'll kill you!
Rene! Rene, wait!
Rene!
Hey, Kyle, is that you?
- Kyle, over here!
- Fraser!
Oh, man, it's good to see you.
Listen... Jesus!
Fraser!
- What the heck are you doing, you sick bastard?
- Jesus! I'm taking pictures, man! I'm a photographer!
Yeah, of my deputy's goddamn arm, you asshole!
Look, I was tracking the thing
through the swamp, okay?
Like I've been doing for months.
This time I got so close.
What did you do to my deputy?
- Where's the rest of him?
- I don't know!
- I found his arm floating there!
- Shut up!
Listen to me. I spent a whole year in
Canada trying to get a shot of Bigfoot,
and then I was a year in Nevada trying
to get that shit happening at Area 51.
I got zip, man! Nothin'!
But what I got tonight... tonight,
man, will streak your shorts.
Come on. We'll go back to my
shack, man. I'll show you the pictures.
- Fuck me.
- Hey, you know what?
That thing's probably sniffing
us out as we speak, Sheriff.
You show me.
Check this out, man.
Huh?
What is this? A picture
of Bywater at night?
Look closer, Sheriff.
Look closer.
Who killed Fraser, Ploog?
Fuck these pictures!
Sheriff, take a closer look.
Come on. You'll see it. It's
like the nature of fear, man.
No, it's a trick.
It's not possible.
What?
I don't believe it.
What is that?
- That's a man.
- Oh, yeah, that's a man, all right, huh?
It's the Man-thing, man!
All right. Look.
All right. It's not perfect.
I understand that. But look
at that. Look at that thing!
Pack up your things. You're
coming with me. It's all evidence now.
- What?
- Everything. Pack it all up.
- You're coming with me.
- No. I can't leave here.
You pack up your photos, all your crap.
Pack it up now.
You're coming with me, or I'm gonna cuff
you and drag you out of here on your ass.
Now!
Don't run, kids.
Something is out there...
waiting.
Teri.
Hi.
Is everything all right?
Fraser was killed last night
in the swamp.
I need you to take me
to Pete Horn.
It was something he said.
Uh, I think he can help me.
Okay, to Pete.
Uh...
just give me a second,
all right?
Kera, I need to talk with you.
Park here at the dump.
We have to walk in.
- Hey, Mary, we're just here to see Pete.
- Hey, Teri.
- This is it.
- You finished with them oysters?
Pete?
Pete, it's Teri.
Hi.
Please sit. I made tea.
- Thank you, Pete.
- How'd you know we'd be here?
It's good tea.
Pete, I need to ask you some
questions about Rene Laroque.
He told me he doesn't believe
Ted Sallis sold that land.
Not many who knew Ted do.
What about you?
Ted Sallis was my elder.
He knew this land was sacred.
When Schist took it,
drove his pumps into it,
ran his pipes through it,
it was the end.
Our stories will die with me.
Hey, come on.
Pete, listen to me.
You're not dying anytime soon.
Do you remember when I took you
to the Dark Water as a child, Teri?
I remember I was scared.
Yes.
It is full of magic,
both light...
and dark.
Our most powerful
guardian spirit...
lives in the Dark Water.
It protects what our ancestors
called the "nexus of all realities."
The guardian has become
very angry.
For the blood spilled,
it seeks blood.
Pete,
I'm a cop.
I can't believe
in Indian spirits and magic.
What you believe doesn't matter.
You're not from this place.
You're not from any place.
Where's Ted Sallis, Pete?
- Is he the one killing people?
- Kyle, wait!
Is he killing people
with or without Rene?
- Kyle, I didn't bring you here to do this.
- Maybe he is in the swamp.
Maybe the swamp is in him.
Whoever or whatever
is out there, Pete,
I saw it.
What did you see?
I don't know.
You know what you saw.
- It has chosen who will die.
- Who?
Who will die, Pete?
Everyone.
Hey.
Hey, Pete. Pete, come
on. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Sit down, okay?
- Is he okay?
- I don't know.
I'm tired.
- Please go now.
- Yeah.
Just rest.
Kyle!
You didn't
have to do that.
He's an old man, for God's sake.
He's an old man who knows
what the hell's going on.
Listen to yourself.
What are you saying?
Listen, Teri. Last night, I saw something
rip apart Fraser like a fucking puppet.
Look, I've gotta go out in that swamp
and stop whatever's killing people.
It's my fault
Fraser's dead, Teri.
And I don't know if
I can protect you.
Hey, Kyle.
None of this is your fault.
Aren't you supposed to be investigating a
murder instead of our educational system?
What is your exact
connection with Rene Laroque?
He worked for me.
Most of the people
around here do.
So?
What?
- Does she taste as good as she looks?
- Fuck you.
Listen, my deputy's dead.
I think you're lying, Schist,
and I'm calling in the F.B.I.
I can't believe this.
Are you threatening me?
Consider yourself relieved
of your duty, Sheriff.
Yeah. I take my orders from
the county. I am the county!
We'll have this sorted out
by the morning.
Well, until then,
you stay the fuck out of my way.
That goes for you too, dipshit.
God, Pa! Damn!
Get in the car.
Get in the car!
See ya.
Just what is it...
you think you know?
You know nothing about Bywater.
This town was nothing before me.
Nobody's gonna
muscle me out of it.
Not the F.B.I.
or Rene Laroque,
and certainly not...
some two-bit
Yankee cocksucker...
with a badge.
Fuck you!
What happened
with the Thibodeauxs?
- They didn't come back this morning.
- Damn it, Jake!
- You were supposed to go with them!
- I was only trying to make sure...
Oh, yes. "I was only trying... I'm
always trying and never doing."
That's your problem.
Goddamn, if you learn
nothing from me, you learn this:
You want something done in life,
you gotta do it yourself,
'cause you cannot rely
on anybody.
Not even your own son.
What are we gonna do
about this, then?
We're gonna finish it.
Tonight.
I want
that Laroque dead.
What about...
Dudley Do-Right?
He keeps on digging.
We'll let him dig.
It's his own grave he's digging.
Give me the strength.
The killing ends tonight.
Kyle, I think you
should call the F.B.I.
The bureau
could take days, Teri.
Schist is gonna go after
Rene tonight.
Listen to me. I've been running
around in that swamp since I was a kid.
I can help you.
You can help me by staying away
from that swamp until all this is over.
That swamp can play tricks
on your mind.
Especially at night.
You don't have to do this.
Teri, listen, please.
Look, Jake could be out there...
Schist, Rene.
God knows what else.
Can you promise me, please?
Just don't go into that swamp.
I'll be here when you get back.
And you better get back.
Okay?
Schist.
Pa, I think I hear something.
I know you.
I know you, and I am not afraid.
Take my life and be done.
Sheriff's office.
Yeah, it's the
coroner. Is the sheriff in?
- Val? It's Teri.
- Yeah.
- Teri, is he in? It's kind of urgent.
- He's not here right now.
I could get him a message.
What's up?
I guess you could say
Corely died of unnatural causes.
I pulled a bullet
out of his spine.
- A bullet?
- Tell Kyle it was at close range.
A semiautomatic handgun, .45.
I think Sheriff Corely
knew who killed him.
- Where is Kyle?
- He's out in the swamp.
Heel! Heel! Heel!
- Get your fucking dogs off me!
- I got 'em, man.
Ploog, I told you to stay
in fucking town!
Can you smell that, Sheriff?
It's the perfume of my future.
Point, click, fame.
There it is! Gotta go.
Good luck out there, man!
- I think it's the cover of Life magazine, man!
- Life magazine!?
Life magazine went out of
business, you fucking idiot!
Jake?
Jake!
Damned if you take
my picture, asshole.
Pa!
Kyle!
Schist.
- Kyle!
- Jesus!
Teri, I almost shot you.
Oh, thank God!
I had to find you.
Corely was murdered.
Val found a slug from a .45
in his spine.
Listen, Teri,
I just found Ploog.
- He's dead. He was shot.
- Jesus.
I don't think Ted Sallis
ran away with that money.
I think Schist killed him for this land.
Corely knew about it, so he got a bullet.
- He's trying to blame it on Rene?
- Rene's the last one that knows the truth.
You'll never find Rene without me.
I'm leading you to the Dark Water.
- That's where he's been hiding out, and I think...
- You've known this all along?
- I knew he was innocent.
- Aw, Jesus, Teri.
You'll never find the Dark Water
without me. Okay?
Okay.
Just keep up.
- Are you sure you know where you're going?
- Yeah.
Down here, I think.
Yeah, I've been thinking
about what Pete said.
- I think he might be right.
- About what?
Oh, shit!
About that.
This way. Come on.
Oh, fuck.
Step.
Stop right there, Rene!
I'm begging you.
I'm just aching for an excuse.
It doesn't matter.
The swamp will have you.
This way!
This is it. This is the last
stretch before the Dark Water.
You can't see a thing in here.
Oh, shit!
God, what is that?
Teri, go!
Go, Teri, go!
Just keep moving!
Jesus!
Do you see anything, Teri?
Kyle, I think there's
something in the water!
Oh, what's that?
Go! Move!
This thing is behind us!
- Kyle, I can't see anything!
- I'm here.
How much further?
- How much further?
- I don't know.
Quick! Go!
You don't scare me
with that hocus-pocus, boy.
You're friend, Ted Sallis,
before he died,
before I buried him
here under this rig,
you know what he said?
Fuck you!
He said I was setting him free.
How about you?
You all wanna be free, Rene?
It's not as dark up
ahead. I can see a clearing.
- Quiet.
- I think it's this way.
- No.
- There. I can see it.
Oh, God! Oh! Rene?
Okay, we gotta get
the fuck out of here!
Rene, what are you doing?
I'm sorry, Teri.
I'm sorry.
My sin put this here.
It's my penance to take it down.
Freeze!
No!
- God!
- Pass me the gun, girl!
- You don't understand! Something's chasing us!
- Give me the gun!
You're a murderer, Schist.
You should have kept your
Yankee nose out of this, boy!
- You're gonna die.
- Yeah!
And I suppose you're
gonna kill me!
No...
He is.
Jake?
Oh, shit!
Here it comes.
Rene, watch out!
Teri!
Run!
I'll set you free!
Teri, move!
- Get down!
- Now, Teri!